Docs protocol cycles results (#787)
OpenFreeEnergy/openfe: docs/guide/protocols/relativehybridtopology.rst

Note: three different types of multistate sampling (i.e. replica swapping between lambda states) methods can be chosen; HREX, SAMS, and independent (no lambda swaps attempted). By default the HREX approach is selected, this can be altered using ``simulation_settings.sampler_method`` (default: ``repex``).

> Analysis

Reviewer: Since the analysis part will be very similar for different HREX protocols (AHFE, RBFE), would it make sense to move the analysis to a subsection of 'working with results'? As a user, that's where I would be looking for these details, I think. I feel like we had discussed this somewhere else, but I don't remember your reasons for putting it here.

~~~~~~~~

As standard, some analysis of the each simulation repeat is performed.
This analysis is made available through either the dictionary of results in the execution output,
or through some ready-made plots for quick inspection.
This analysis can be categorised as relating
to the energetics of the different lambda states that were sampled,
or to the analysis of the change in structural conformation over time in each state.

> * lambda energetic analysis

Reviewer: I think the replica exchange analysis is related to energetics, but maybe a better title here would be something like 'energetic and replica exchange analysis'? (I don't quite like this yet either, but can't come up with something better right now)

Author: this is #792 which will get done after your PR which this is adding to gets merged

>   * free energy overlap matrix

Reviewer: I think I would say MBAR overlap matrix or potential energy overlap matrix since this is not the overlap of the free energies, but potential energies, i think.

>   * replica exchange overlap matrix (for repex only)

Reviewer: Maybe ``replica exchange transition matrix (for repex only)``?

  * timeseries of replica states

>   * forward and reverse estimates of free energies

Reviewer: Since this is the cumulative estimates with the aim of looking at convergence, maybe ``* forward and reverse convergence of free energy differences``

* relating to structural analysis. If a protein was present, these analyses first center and align the system so that
  the protein is considered the frame of reference.

>   * ligand RMSD  This produces a plot called ``xyz.png`` and a results entry ``xyz``

Reviewer: Maybe it would be nice to add an example figure for all the plots (also the ones above) here?

Analysis
~~~~~~~~

As standard, some analysis of the each simulation repeat is performed.
This analysis is made available through either the dictionary of results in the execution output,
or through some ready-made plots for quick inspection.
This analysis can be categorised as relating
to the energetics of the different lambda states that were sampled,
or to the analysis of the change in structural conformation over time in each state.

.. todo: issue 792, consolidate this page into its own analysis page and link both RBFE and AFE pages to it

* Energetic and replica exchange analysis.  These analyses consider the swapping and energetic overlap between the
  different simulated states to help assess the convergence and correctness of the estimate of free energy
  difference produced.

  * MBAR overlap matrix.  This plot is used to assess if the different lambda states simulated overlapped energetically.
    Each matrix element represents the probability of a sample from a given row state being observable in a given column
    state.
    This plot should show that the diagonal of the matrix has some "width" so that the two end states are connected,

>     with off-diagonal elements being at least 0.03[2]_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    with elements adjacent to the diagonal being at least 0.03[2]_.
```

>   * Replica exchange overlap matrix (for repex type simulations only).  Similar to the MBAR overlap matrix, this shows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Replica exchange probability matrix (for repex type simulations only).  Similar to the MBAR overlap matrix, this shows
```
The original API docs are incorrect here, it's not an overlap matrix, it's a probability of state exchange.

    the probability of a given lambda state being exchanged with another.  Again, the diagonal of this matrix should be
    at least tridiagonal wide for the two end states to be connected.
  * Timeseries of replica states.  This plot shows the time evolution of the different system configurations as they are
    exchanged between different lambda states.
    This plot should show that the states are freely mixing and that there are no cliques forming.
  * Forward and reverse convergence of free energy estimates.  Using increasingly larger portions of the total data,
    this analysis calculates the free energy estimate, and is repeated both forwards and backwards in time.

>     To assess convergence the forward and reverse estimates should agree within error using only a fraction of the total

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    In this analysis, forward and backward estimates that agree within error using only a fraction of the total data suggest convergence[2]_.
```

    data[2]_.

* Structural analysis. If a protein was present, these analyses first center and align the system so that
  the protein is considered the frame of reference.

  * Ligand RMSD.  This produces a plot called ``ligand_RMSD.png`` and a results entry ``ligand_RMSD`` which gives the

>     RMSD of the ligand molecule over time relative to the first frame, for each simulated state.  In correct simulations

Reviewer: Is this the first frame of the production run or the initial input pdb structure (as first frame)?

Author: clarified this, it's of the production run.  So if it rearranged significantly in equilibration this wouldn't cause a large RMSD value.

>     this metric should quickly converge to a stable value of less than 5 angstrom.

Reviewer: Maybe something like: Large RMSD values, e.g. greater than 5 angstrom (system dependent), would indicate an unstable ligand binding mode.

>     RMSD of the ligand molecule over time relative to the first frame, for each simulated state.  In correct simulations
>     this metric should quickly converge to a stable value of less than 5 angstrom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    RMSD of the ligand molecule over time relative to the first frame, for each simulated state.  Large RMSD values, e.g. greater than 5 angstrom (system dependent), would indicate an unstable ligand binding mode.
```

Getting the free energy estimate
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The free energy differences are obtained from simulation data using the `MBAR estimator <https://www.alchemistry.org/wiki/Multistate_Bennett_Acceptance_Ratio>`_ (multistate Bennett acceptance ratio estimator) as implemented in the `PyMBAR package <https://pymbar.readthedocs.io/en/master/mbar.html>`_.
In addition to the MBAR estimates of the two legs of the thermodynamic cycle and the overall realtive binding free energy difference,
the protocol also returns some metrics to help assess convergence of the results.
The forward and reverse analysis looks at the time convergence of the free energy estimates.

> The MABR overlap matrix checks how well lambda states overlap. Since the accuracy of the MBAR estimator depends on sufficient overlap between lambda states, this is a very important metric.

Reviewer: `Since the accuracy of the MBAR estimator depends on sufficient overlap between lambda states, this is a very important metric.`
I think this sentence might be worth adding to the analysis section so the user understands why this is important.

to the energetics of the different lambda states that were sampled,
or to the analysis of the change in structural conformation over time in each state.

.. todo: issue 792, consolidate this page into its own analysis page and link both RBFE and AFE pages to it

* Energetic and replica exchange analysis.  These analyses consider the swapping and energetic overlap between the

>   different simulated states to try to establish the convergence and correctness of the estimate of free energy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  different simulated states to help assess the convergence and correctness of the estimate of free energy
```

  difference produced.

  * MBAR overlap matrix.  This plot is used to assess if the different lambda states simulated overlapped energetically.
    Each matrix element represents the probability of a sample from a given row state being observable in a given column
    state.

>     This plot should show that the diagonal of the matrix has some "width" so that the two end states are connected.

Reviewer: Maybe on could specifically say that the values above the main diagonal (is that what the off-diagonal 1 is called?) should be greater or equal 0.03 (3%) (citing alchemlyb here: "It is recommended that there should be at least 0.03 [[Klimovich2015]] overlap between neighboring states." (https://alchemlyb.readthedocs.io/en/latest/visualisation.html)

  * Replica exchange overlap matrix (for repex type simulations only).  Similar to the MBAR overlap matrix, this shows

>     the probability a given lambda state exchanged with another.  Again, the diagonal of this matrix should be at least

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    the probability of a given lambda state being exchanged with another.  Again, the diagonal of this matrix should be at least
```

    tridiagonal wide for the two end states to be connected.
  * timeseries of replica states.  This plot shows the evolution of time of the different lambda states as they are

>     exchanged between different configurations.

Reviewer: I would write it the other way around: This plot shows the time evolution of how the simulation trajectories traverse through lambda space as configurations are exchanged between different lambda states. (or something like that)

    This plot should show that the states are freely mixing and that there are no cliques forming.

>   * forward and reverse estimates of free energies.  This analysis considers the free energy estimate produced using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * forward and reverse estimates of free energies.  This analysis calculates the cumulative free energy estimates using
```

Author: not sure "cumulative" is the best word here, I've tried to reword it

    increasingly larger fractions of the total data, and is repeated both forwards and backwards in time.
    To assess convergence the forward and reverse estimates should agree within error using only a fraction of the total
    data[2]_.

* Structural analysis. If a protein was present, these analyses first center and align the system so that
  the protein is considered the frame of reference.

  * ligand RMSD.  This produces a plot called ``ligand_RMSD.png`` and a results entry ``ligand_RMSD`` which gives the
    RMSD of the ligand molecule over time relative to the first frame, for each simulated state.  In correct simulations
    this metric should quickly converge to a stable value of less than 5 angstrom.
  * ligand COM drift.  For simulations with a protein present, this metric gives the total distance of the ligand COM
    from its initial starting (docked) position.  If this metric increases over the course of the simulation it
    indicates that the ligand drifted from the binding pocket, and the simulation is unreliable.

>     This produces a plot called ``ligand_COM_drift.png`` and a results entry ``ligand_COM_drift``.

Reviewer: Is there a rough estimate (in terms of Angstrom) that should raise concerns?

Author: I've put 5A?

Reviewer: I haven't worked much with COM analysis so I'm not sure what a reasonable, but i agree it should definitely be below 5A.

Reviewer 2: This is very much an unknown - i.e. it's very binding site dependent and there are lots of different folks in literature claiming lots of different values. Same thing for the RMSD metric (indeed because we are using non-symmetry correct RMSD, a 5A RMSD could easily be much smaller).

I would make it clear in the text that these are example values and that your mileage will vary depending on the system you are studying.
